hello and welcome once again to the land
rover toolbox videos today we're going
to continue and look at heavens
waterless engine Corners water is one of
the most efficient heat transfer agents
that one can use in a liquid cooled
engine however it comes with problems up
to recently ethylene glycol has been
used to stop the water from freezing and
also antifreeze will have corrosion
inhibitors in it to stop the engine from
corroding from oxidization antifreeze
solution also stops cavitation which is
air bubbles in the system which cause
damage the inherent weakness with
ethylene glycol or mono ethylene glycol
is the corrosion inhibitors wear out
which require the strength being checked
throughout service life in either needs
to be changed every two or five years
respectively or FRA degree use to stop
the water from causing steam within the
engine the system has to be pressurized
this itself produces problems as well
ethylene glycol also toxic evidence
however has provided a different
solution which gets round most of the
problems that we see with liquid cooled
engines or water-cooled engines as Evans
so rightly States removing the water
from the cooling system will remove the
problems
let's fill Bayliss and tell me what you
got and why use Evans got td5 tune
recent defender and we're having trouble
with the cooling system running
pressurized and obviously getting hot
because of the performance package with
Garnett recommended Evans cool and
doesn't pressurizing it music 180
degrees and temperature so we put it in
and it's very cool stuff
it we can run up 220 degrees in
temperature and extreme conditions if we
need to and not worry that's gonna boil
over or pressurize and it's cured all of
our problems about running half runs hot
but we've got no worse the pipes
radiators losing the coolant and it's
brilliant stuff well Phil's talking
about is the power call which is for
performance racing and as he says it
doesn't boil to 180 degree centigrade
okay so the benefit is basically
eliminating overheating and it reduces
pressure because it's very little
pressure with this system prevents
corrosion increases bhp by improving
combustion by efficiency cavitation
which comes under the title of erosion
where air bubbles will cause damage
that's actually eliminated and you
freeze protection is down to minus 40
and it's non-toxic surprisingly we have
had it on the gauge of 220 degrees
that's what the gauge stops and it was
still fine we didn't lose now sort of
coolant I what he says under 10
okay well if you want to know more in
depth about technical specs on this they
do a PDF on each of the products on the
website just here which you can download
and read the datasheet with regards to
performance related Land Rover products
and using evans call and get in contact
with a live tuning alive cheering comm
basically evans supply quite a wide
range of faultless cooling solutions for
different types of systems and engines
and there's a wide variety for your land
rovers products pairs and accessories
mail-order land rover parts stock a
wider range of evans cooling products so
check them out and our TV have already
used some of this stuff on a land rover
90 defender so check out in part two
what's actually required to change the
system over to using this stuff we'll
see you there